Hi, I'm Tyler
Yost, one of the vice principals here
at Fundy Middle and High School.
One of the things that we do here
at Fundy Middle and High School
is we work with our district partners
and leaders and making sure that our staff
are continually getting updates
on best practices and ways that they can
improve their classroom environment
to best suit the needs of our students.
I think being trauma informed is more than
just understanding that kids
come into our building with trauma.
It's about understanding
what makes them tick
and how we respond to their needs
when they come into our building.
We know that students come to us
with adverse childhood experiences,
and that may impact how they behave
or operate within our building.
And as a staff, it's important
that we are able to not make assumptions
of who these people are.
We don't know necessarily
everyone's entire story, so it's important
in order to be inclusive,
that we are considering all students
and shaping our environment
and a response in a way
that would be suitable
for as many students as possible.
I would say to gain traction
in trauma informed practices.
It requires continual
learning and discussion and updates.
And as administrators, being able
to to debrief on behavioral incidents
and tie that into to the behavior
where possible.
One of the best ways that we can be
trauma informed in
our building is not making assumptions
about who's walking into our door.
So assuming that all students are impacted
in some way
and not expecting every student
to share their story
and what they've gone through,
either in years past or on the very day of
when they're walking into our building.
So we encourage teachers
to be kind and welcoming
when when students enter the classroom,
and to be curious
when we see behaviors that don't align
with how we would see a student
on a typical day, to be curious
and to see how we can support
and remove barriers
and keep them active and engaged
in that school.
I would say, especially in years past,
when we see problem
behavior, educators would be quick
to remove students from classrooms
and even even from school,
through disciplinary measures
and being curious and trauma
informed addresses the root of the issue.
Rather than seeing the child
as the problem and removing them.
We want to remove barriers
and come to a point of understanding
so that students can succeed.
I would say we know that
we're being successful
by measuring
how long students are in class,
and we know that when they're in class,
they're learning.
And that's a great measure of success.